---
layout: post-light-feature
title: Week 1 Entry
description: "To turn or not to turn: the story of how map, GPS and knowledge should be viewed in the modern life"
categories: articles
date: 2017-09-08
image: 
        feature: soft-trees.jpg
---
Despite of its quotidian usage, map is still one of the most underappreciated object/application in one's life. Ten out of ten people you ask on the street will have either Google map or Apple map on their mobile device. In fact, map application is the one application that no smartphone user will delete no matter how short their phone storage is. Yet, how come something that is so popular is in fact underappreciated? Map is underappreciated in the same way that a wealthy man is unappreciated to his everyday meal or the way that a teenager takes his parents' words and advices for granted. These situations are similar in the way that when the objects – money for the wealthy man and parents for the teenager – are lost, people will realize that their life has been overly dependent on these objects that they once took for granted. Not many of us has ever asked ourselves the question of what will happen if one day maps just disappear. Or even worst, what will happen if maps were never been recorded? Could Columbus discover the Americas simply by gazing at the stars and the sun? It would be a total chaos. People would be trapped in their own "community". Communication would be suspended. Travelling would mean to never return. And most severely, humanity would advance without knowing where it is heading to. So the next time you open your map application, take a minute or two looking carefully at its content, and maybe you will find something more than just a way from New York to Boston.

In the recent years, during the digitalization of data and knowledge, a new kind of cartography is introduced, known as digital map (or web map). The introduction of web map has changed the way maps are made and used in the daily life. I still remembered when I was in middle school, when phone hasn't been so "smart", whenever I needed to go out, I would have to open the map to redraw its path and road names on a small piece of paper before going out. Nowadays, with the aid of Google map, one just need to enter the designated destination, and the GPS device in one's car will take care of the way. It is much more convenient, yet, the drawback is that no one remembers the roads anymore. And it is totally understandable. Why should one bother to remember their ways when there is a device what will tell him or her to turn left in the next 500 meters? This brings me back to a point that we mentioned briefly in the first class: what will a person do when the road that a map shows is contradict to his knowledge or another external input? Let's imagine that you are behind the wheel driving from work to home. You just move into the neighborhood, so you know the road but not very well. Your GPS tells you to turn right at the next crossroad. However, you remember from this morning that you should go straight for another 600 meters before turning right. What will you do? Will you turn? I think most people will follow their GPS anyway, yet, some might go with their knowledge. The factors for making such decision lay on how confidence one is with his/her knowledge. By the end of the day, one will get home eventually. But the next time something like this happens again, the question still remains: to turn or not to turn? (And this time, the result could be significantly different).

